Over 100 years ago, elegant party guests stood here on the corner of Monterey and Morrow streets, excited to celebrate a milestone in a burgeoning San Luis Obispo. The opening of the Anderson Hotel.
Much has changed in the last century, with the building now being used as apartments. Ray Shearer, who has worked at the street level barbershop since the 60s, has seen how J.L. Anderson's dream has evolved and changed.
My name is Ray Shearer and I'm the owner.
Oh, Chris, I am giving an impromptu tour to a lady that's doing an article on the building.
You're getting a tour most people don't get.
This was the bar. And this was part of the addition to the building. Because the building, this was part of the patio area. When the building was first built.
That's the chandelier. Believe it or not. What? You can take a picture of that that used to hang outside. And that's the original. That hung in that... in the archway.
So I think they added three rooms per floor when they came out this way. This is the 1930 addition. You're looking back at the original. We are in the new addition.
For knowing so much about the past of the Anderson Hotel, Ray says the historic nature doesn't often hit him while he's working in his barber shop. Just that being in the space feels like home.
I don't realize the historic ness of it being as I've been here, you know, darn near 60 years, and it's been here 100. Only these 40 years that I wasn't here.